# My takeaways from the AZ-204 exam

A few days ago, I managed to pass the AZ-204 exam. I thought it was very interesting. In general, I like the Azure certifications for giving a broad view of the possible solutions out there when working with data. Of course, when actually in a project, you'll probably still need to actually look up and study to make sure you get it right, but it's much better to start from a point of familiarity with the solutions in Azure.

In this blog, I will summarize the way I studied for the exam, and some of the most interesting things I didn't know before.

## My study process

First of all, I already came to this exam with a few years experience in Linux, docker, and some web development in Python. While that definitely does not cover the entire exam, it definitely helped a lot with understanding and applying the concepts I didn't know already. It's much easier to learn about setting up a docker deployment in Azure when you've already done that many times outside of Azure, and already know about the intricacies/challenges in doing so. Also, [as mentioned in this blog](1-azureapps.html), I had already independently of this exam, set up an infrastructure for my company to deploy shiny apps in Azure Web Apps. This actually matched the exam content very well, which was a happy coincidence.

My basic studying process went like this:

1. First, visit [the exam website](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/certifications/exams/az-204), and follow the learning path

This is a bit of a mixed bag. For certain topics I didn't know yet, like Event Hubs, Service Bus and CosmosDB, this was a great intro. Seeing it for myself in the Azure Portal is just a good way of getting my head around what a resource *looks like*.

However, there are several modules that are just irrelevant, and some topics that should be covered but aren't. As I am writing this, there are two modules specifically: working with relational data (read: Azure SQL) and working with Azure Databricks. While Databricks is massively interesting and I can hopefully work with it in the near future, it just simply is not relevant for the AZ-204 exam. Also, relational data does not really appear other than in an auxilliary way (for example: how would you securely access the database connection string in a web app?). These topics are better suited for the DP-200 and DP-201 exams.

My recommendation would just be to skim or skip the topics that are unrelated, and in general, don't stick around too long unless it's actually a topic that's completely new to you. This is more of an introduction and widening of perspective as to what's out there.

2. Second, carefully read the exam skills outline on the same page, and make notes as to anything that needs to be studied.

For me, there were several topics I still needed to study, like Logic Apps, Azure CDN, Redis, and Azure APIM. I've used some of these already, but there seems to be a difference between the basic knowledge required to just deploy a basic solution, and the exam content.

3. Visit the [Microsoft documentation page](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/) and start reading up on stuff you're not really comfortable with.

For example, the [Azure APIM page here](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/). Note that I basically always skipped the tutorial, since the exam doesn't really require you to actually deploy anything from scratch. The exam is more about knowing the underlying concepts, so the tutorial is not a very efficient use of studying time.

After quickly skimming through some pages, I note which concepts are interesting to study. As an illustration:

- How to deploy APIs: there are different methods, such as OpenAPI, Azure Funtion, or Logic App. However, the exam probably won't require you to know OpenAPI in depth since it's an open standard, and not Azure specific. Importing from Azure Function or Logic App is trivial, and just consists of pressing 'import'. Therefore, this section probably doesn't require much studying.

- Policies: There are dozens of policies you can use to define API behavior. However, such rote memorization is probably not part of the exam. However, I should try to understand the behavior of these policies. I also note that there is some custom XML format, which I should probably understand. There are many examples of such XML files, which I will try to read and understand.

Now this is a very verbose example, and for me, this is not a very systematic process. It's mostly a lot of skimming and recognizing what seems interesting.

4. Doing a practice exam.

I normally wouldn't think it's worth it to buy expensive practice exams or books when there is so much free material out there, but I've found [whizlabs](https://www.whizlabs.com/microsoft-azure-certification-az-204/) to be a pretty good and cheap source of practice exams. Currently, they have about 150 fairly good practice questions for sale, for 16 euros, which is probably worth it. The way to make this practice exams is to take every single question you get wrong, and go back to the previous step: reading more documentation. Whizlabs actually helpfully provides a link to the documentation for every question, although getting a question wrong may be a sign you don't need to just study that single page, but check the broader topic, just in case.

5. Doing the real exam

I did the real exam online, due to coronavirus. It was a pretty painfree experience, with the exception of having to go to the toilet, which is not allowed in online tests, for the entire 3-hour period. Overall, I did quite well, with a 772/1000 score.

## Interesting observations

### Azure AD Claims/roles

I was somewhat unprepared for Azure AD being a topic in the exam. While it is treated in much more detail in the MS-600 exam, there is a small part of this exam that consists of knowing how app registrations work. I would definitely recommend studying these pages in particular:

- [How to: Provide optional claims to your Azure AD app](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-optional-claims)
- [Azure Active Directory app manifest](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/reference-app-manifest)

### Other minor topics

Some other minor topics for the exam I wasn't too familliar with: Azure CDN, Azure Front Door, Azure CDN, Redis, Azure Application Insights and Azure Monitor (particularly [this part](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/usage-overview)).

These are all somewhat minor topics, so I think it's definitely possible to comfortably pass the exam without knowing about them, but it certainly won't hurt to at least skim the documentation pages to know what they are, and what they should be used for. Just in case you get a question like 'given these requirements, is Azure CDN a solution'?

### Events/messages

This is one of the major parts of the exam, next to Azure Functions, Web Apps, and CosmosDB. This was also the part I had the least experience with. My main takeaway is: it's more important to understand the concepts behind events/messages, than the exact way these resources function. This is important because there is a huge amount of event/messaging servies in Azure: Queue Storage, Service Bus, Event Hub, Event Grid, Notification Queue, and you can even use Azure Functions or VMs for events/messaging! I found that it was more important to learn which to use in what circumstance.

That also includes certain concepts like topics/subscriptions/filters, which are massively important concepts in events/messaging, and all function somewhat differently in the services listed above. I would predict that if you know all that, you should be fine for the exam

## Conclusion

Take everything I said with a grain of salt, since I am just one exam taker, and this is just my experience. I hope I kept the advice somewhat general enough. This studying method worked quite well, and I plan to use it for future exams/certifications as well. Probably I will be pursuing DP200 and DP201 next, since they cover Azure SQL, Azure Data Factory and Azure Databricks, all topics I am very interested in getting more grip on as a data engineer.
